once you hit me as hard as you can
hi I'm Luke Ryan for Joe Blow calm and
welcome to movie endings explain where
we'll be taking a look at some of the
more ambiguous and discussed movie
endings that have left audiences
debating their true meaning long after
the credits have rolled
after the recent release of Blade Runner
2049 I felt it was appropriate to tackle
the ending of the 1982 sci-fi classic
Blade Runner much like its predecessor
Blade Runner 2049 seems to be a film
that isn't all that commercial but will
go on to entertain and engage the minds
of movie fans for decades to come the
original film directed by Ridley Scott
follows the police detective Rick
Deckard played by Harrison Ford set in a
dystopian 2019 Los Angeles Blade Runner
is a wonder of production and art design
creating a teeming metropolis of shadows
and neon this world is not only
inhabited by humans but also by
replicants life like synthetic Androids
used for slave labor they became too
unstable and were deemed illegal leaving
a task force of special detectives no
alternative but to track them down and
retire them they were called blade
runners and Deckard has seemingly turned
away from that life but just when he
thought he was out he gets drawn back in
a group of replicants have landed on
earth and a very dangerous Nexus six
models with a built-in lifespan of four
years to counteract their growing sense
of independence throughout the course of
the film Deckard tracks down and
neutralizes all but one of the rogue
replicants that one being Roy batty
played by Rutger Hauer Roy is the leader
charismatic philosophical his emotional
growth has been rapid and while he won't
hesitate to kill Roy is primarily
concerned with gaming more of what he
can't have
life the inevitable showdown between
Deckard and Roy at the end of the film
is anything but conventional with
Deckard on the defense the entire time
Roy unstable and reaching the end of his
pre-programmed life toys with Deckard
and eventually they both end up on the
roof of a building Deckard is hanging
off the edge about to fall and all
the villain of the film has to do is let
Deckard fall and die but in one last act
of defiance Deckard spits a troy falls
and is saved by the helping hand of the
replicant he was hired to kill Roy then
sits down white dove in hand and
delivers one of the most memorable
monologues in movie history
[Music]
I've seen things you people wouldn't
believe attack ships on fire off the
shoulder of a lion
I watched c-beams glitter in the dark
near the Tannhauser game
all does
moments will be lost in time like tears
in rain
time to die
[Music]
it's an unforgettable moment of an
artificially intelligent being coming to
terms with his artificial mortality he
declares his Wonder of life the fleeting
nature of memories the human experience
to an audience of one Rick Deckard who
says nothing and listens to everything a
look of understanding maybe he realized
what Roy was fighting for all along
realized that the so-called skinjobs
that he was quote unquote retiring were
actually capable of feeling after all
maybe he was murdering not retiring and
maybe the fact that someone's
consciousness is artificial doesn't
change how meaningful that experience is
earlier in the film Deckard met Rachel
the supposed daughter of Tyrell the
creator of the replicants Deckard
subjects Rachel to a test and concludes
that she is in fact a replica and over
the course of the film she discovers
this fact out - and they both fall in
love after Roy dies on the rooftop one
of the detectives gaff turns up and
alludes to Rachel when he calls out to
Deckard
it's too bad she won't live but then
again who does
at the very end of the film when Deckard
returns to his apartment he wonders if
rachel has already died or in fact been
retired by one of the blade runners but
she's alive and they leave together
and so ends the film at least the
version Ridley Scott wants you to see
I'm judging the film based on his 2007
final cut which in turn was based on the
director's cut in the original
theatrical version of Blade Runner we
see Deckard and Rachel driving through
the mountains in a studio mandated happy
ending it takes the edge off of the
ending somewhat both rhythmically but
also thematically one of the artistic
strengths of Blade Runner is that it all
takes place in the perpetual nihilistic
darkness of Los Angeles the fact that
the shots of the mountains were outtakes
from Stanley Kubrick's helicopter
footage for the shining is a testament
to how thrown together this ending
really was the final cut makes the
ending not only more impactful but less
ambiguous an origami unicorn what the
hell is that supposed to mean we'd seen
gaff making origami figures throughout
the film
so clearly gaff had been to Deckard's
apartment but also wanted Deckard to
know he'd been there but why and why a
unicorn well in the final cuts and the
director's cut too we have a scene of
Deckard at his piano dreaming of a
unicorn based on how introverted and
quiet Deckard appears to be it stands to
reason that he wouldn't be telling
anyone about his dreams let alone one of
a unicorn so how would gaff have made
the connection
earlier on Deckard explained to Rachel
how her childhood memories were implants
taken from other humans and that he saw
this in her file so it also stands to
reason that the only way gaff could have
known about Deckard's dreams of a
unicorn is if he saw it in Deckard's
file thus we get to one of the biggest
debates of sci-fi film history is Rick
Deckard a replicant what's interesting
is the varying perspectives on this
timeless question from the audience
to the creators Harrison Ford wants the
answer to be no Ridley Scott wants the
answer to be yes and the screenwriter
Hampton Fancher blocks if they're even
being in answer to the question the
unicorn is seemingly the biggest case
towards the argument that Deckard is a
replicant but
some even dismiss this as evidence
claiming that Deckard is actually
daydreaming about Rachel's memories and
that gaffs origami calling card is there
to let Deckard know that he can take off
with Rachel and make the best of it
even if it would have theoretically been
part of gasps duty to retire Rachel and
he clearly didn't visit the apartment
then there's the eyes throughout the
film you'll see pinpoints of reflected
light inside the eyes of the replicants
this was a very specific and intentional
effect done with great care to provide
that extra visual aid of the unnatural
to the replicants on-screen in this
scene in Deckard's apartment we see the
lights in Rachel's eyes and behind her
just out of focus we see the same glint
flash across Deckard's eyes too when I
saw that red shell his eyes said give me
a break no please don't and there really
is tricky I think probably that was
really really decision I said leave me
alone Hampton now this could have been
intentional by Ridley Scott or it could
have been accidental as the two actors
were standing right next to each other
and the effect could have carried over
to Deckard's eyes by mistake it seemed
that Harrison Ford and Ridley Scott were
both are odds with each other about this
mystery of Deckard's true origin
whenever I thought that I was possibly
being positioned as a replicant I
wouldn't I would seek out Ridley
argue against it because it was my
notion that in context of this world the
audience needed an emotional
representative on on screen that they
that they could depend on being a human
being one case against decade being a
replicant is that they have a built-in
four-year lifespan and especially with
Deckard being in the sequel Blade Runner
2049 he must clearly have been human yet
it's only ever stated that the
Troublesome Nexus 6 models had that
lifespan built in Deckard could simply
be an older replicant or a newer
replicant overall the answer is
absolutely up to you even if Ridley
Scott thinks it's all very simple and so
that at the end of the film I can have
something absolutely remarkable the
Czech Nostra which is a unicorn and he
goes like that boom how would anyone
have known what was inside his head
other than someone who knew what was in
his file that hadn't been implanted in
his brain
how many clear in there for me
I think either argument works it affects
the story in different ways but both are
powerful outcomes if he is human then he
has gone on a journey where he has
fallen in love with a replicant and seen
the true nature of how this artificial
life-form can seemingly still feel like
any human can if he's a replicant then
he realizes the true nature of himself
and that if it feels real to him then
it's real enough for anyone in what will
absolutely be a spoiler for Blade Runner
2049 so you've been warned Jared Leto's
character Wallace the successes the
tyrell as the mass manufacturer
replicants confronts Deckard with the
true meaning of his being
Wallace suggests the Deckard that
perhaps it was by design that he met
Rachel all those years ago and that it
was part of Tyrells plan to have Deckard
fall in love with her the idea presented
is that Deckard and Rachel were designed
to be the first replicants to conceive a
child Deckard merely responds with I
know what's real while many have taken
this scene in Blade Runner 2049 to be an
explanation and confirmation the Deckard
was always a replicant I preferred to
see it as a potential
ploy by Wallace to manipulate Deckard
which is the wonderful element in these
movies the truth behind the literal
insides of the characters we see on
screen becomes irrelevant to the
emotions they feel and the decisions
they make artificial or not but therein
lies the key theme to the Blade Runner
world what is it to be real what is it
to be human what is it to feel is Rick
Deckard a replicant the answer is simple
and it's staring you right in the face
maybe
you